You are all doing well! Now, let me explain the copyright
procedures for the school festival stage.
Let’s start by checking with music.
Aoi, what kind of precautions are necessary
when performing music?
Yes. We have no problem performing songs we have written
ourselves since we own the copyright.
However, if we want to perform a song written by a professional
at a concert,
the song is the copyrighted work of another person.
Then, we must obtain a license to use the song.
Specifically, the concert organizer must contact a copyright
management society such as JASRAC and pay a royalty fee.
That’s right. How about this school festival?
There is no admission fee for this school festival, and the stage
events are free of charge.
Therefore, we don’t need to obtain a license.
Yes. This is called “non-profit performance.”
It is not for profit, and no fee is received from the audience or
spectators. No remuneration is paid to the performers.
If the three requirements are met, you can use a copyrighted
work without obtaining permission,
so it is not only limited to educational use.
The purpose of the copyright system is to contribute to the
development of culture.
Therefore, from the viewpoint of fair and smooth exploitation of
works
that are cultural products,
the system restricts some of the authors’ rights and stipulates cases where users can use copyrighted works without permission.
You mean that the music used by the dance club and the play
written by the drama club do not need permission if it is a free
school festival, right?
Yes. The same thing applies.
However, the author’s “moral rights” are not limited
even in the case of free performances,
so you should be careful when editing the music
or altering the script.
That’s why the executive committee’s manual requires
each group to check to see if there are any edits to the music
played on stage or alterations to the scripts of plays.
What will happen regarding e-sports?
As for e-sports, let me explain. As a game enthusiast,
the same concept can apply to computer games used for e-sports,
basically as ‘non-profit performances, etc.’
However, depending on the game title, there are many cases
where the game software makers have established rules and
policies for holding competitions in their terms of use.
I may have to have the e-sports club check
the game’s terms of use.
We don’t know much about e-sports as it’s a new proposition.
We should do some research, too.
Also, Kasumi, you mentioned that since we are an educational
institution, we do not need the copyright owner’s permission.
However, Article 35 of the Copyright Law states, “exploitation
in the course of those classes.”
Please note that unlike cultural festivals held as part of classes
up to high school,
university school festivals do not fall under this category.
I see. High school festivals and college festivals are different.
I understand!